Type name: application

Subtype name: ipp

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: IPP protocol requests/responses MAY contain
long lines and ALWAYS contain binary data (for example attribute
value lengths).

Security considerations: IPP protocol requests/responses do not
introduce any security risks not already inherent in the underlying
transport protocols.  Protocol mixed-version interworking rules in
[RFC2911bis] as well as protocol encoding rules in this document are
complete and unambiguous.  See also the security considerations in
this document and [RFC2911bis].

Interoperability considerations: IPP requests (generated by clients)
and responses (generated by servers) MUST comply with all conformance
requirements imposed by the normative specifications [RFC2911bis] and
this document.  Protocol encoding rules specified in [RFC2910bis] are
comprehensive, so that interoperability between conforming
implementations is guaranteed (although support for specific optional
features is not ensured).  Both the "charset" and "natural-language"
of all IPP attribute values which are a LOCALIZED-STRING are explicit
within IPP protocol requests/responses (without recourse to any
external information in HTTP, SMTP, or other message transport
headers).

Published specifications:

   [RFC2911bis] Sweet, M., McDonald, I., "Internet Printing
   Protocol/1.1: Model and Semantics" draft-sweet-rfc2911bis-10.txt,
   August 2016.

   [RFC2910bis] Sweet, M., McDonald, I., "Internet Printing
   Protocol/1.1: Encoding and Transport", draft-sweet-rfc2910bis-
   09.txt, August 2016.

Applications which use this media type: Internet Printing Protocol
(IPP) print clients and print servers, communicating using HTTP/HTTPS
or other transport protocol.  Messages of type "application/ipp" are
self-contained and transport-independent, including "charset" and
"natural-language" context for any LOCALIZED-STRING value.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Additional information:

   Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

   Magic number(s):

   File extension(s):

   Macintosh file type code(s):

Person & email address to contact for further information: ISTO PWG
IPP Workgroup <ipp&pwg.org>

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author: ISTO PWG IPP Workgroup <ipp&pwg.org>

Change controller: ISTO PWG IPP Workgroup <ipp&pwg.org>

Provisional registration? (standards tree only): No